20,000 leagues under the sea, by Jules
Verne, retold by Fiona Bedell. Penguin readers,
Level 1.
Chapter 1 The Giant Whale
In the year 1866, a new boat came
back from sea every week with the same
story. A giant
whale, a hundred meters long, came near our
boat, the man said. The story was in
the newspapers,
and a lot of people talked about it.
"'It wasn't a whale,' scientists said. A big
blue whale is only 27 meters long. Perhaps
it
was a coral reef.
"'But a coral reef can't send water 50
meters into the air,' the seaman answered.
"'This animal can.'
"'It went near one boat in Australian waters.
Three days later, it was 700 leagues away
in the Pacific.
"'Wales can't swim 700 leagues in three days,'
the scientist said. Perhaps it's a submarine.
"'But only a country with a lot of
money can build a submarine. And the same
answer came back from
every country. We haven't got a submarine.'
"'One day, a British boat, the Scotia, was
in the Atlantic. Suddenly,
water started to come into the boat. The
captain looked for the problem. There was a
big hole in
the boat. The Scotia is very strong,' he
said. "'I don't understand this hole.'
"'Is it the work of the giant whale?'
"'To me, a French scientist, the stories of
the whale were, of course, very interesting.
"'In 1867, I visited New York, and newspapermen
there asked me questions.
"'You're famous for your book about sea animals,
Mr. Aranax,' they said.
"'What do you think about this giant whale?'
"'The sea's very big,' I answered. And it's
the home of many thousands of animals.
Scientists don't know about all of them. But
one small whale has a long spear on
its head.
Perhaps there's a giant whale with a spear,
too. And perhaps this animal spear can make
a hole in a
boat.' A week later, a letter arrived at
my hotel. It said,
"'You know, of course, about the giant whale.
One day this whale is going to kill
people.
But we are going to kill it first.
Please calm and look for it with us.
Our boat,
the Abraham Lincoln, is waiting for you.'
I wanted to see this interesting animal. I
went quickly to the Abraham Lincoln with my
Belgian servant, Consé.
From New York, we went down the Atlantic
coast of North and South America and into
the Pacific.
Week after week, all day and all night,
the seamen watched the water.
Consé and I watched with them. But we
didn't see the giant whale.
Only one man on the boat didn't watch
the water. His name was Ned Land. Ned
was a big, strong
Canadian, about 40 years old. And he was
a very good whaler.
"'You're never going to find this whale,' he
said. It was near Japan in May. But
it's now July.
Where is it today? The Mediterranean? The Arctic?
Who knows?'
For five long months, we looked for the
whale. Then the men started to say,
"'Perhaps Ned is right. When can we go
home?' They asked their captain.
But suddenly, one day, Ned said,
"'There it is. I can see the giant
whale.'"
The animal moved very quickly in the water.
It came near our boat.
"'We don't want a hole in the Abraham
Lincoln,' the captain said.
"'Let's move away.'"
"'But our boat was slow. We watched the
whale. It's going to hit us,' we said.
But it didn't. It went under the boat,
not into it.
All day, we went after the whale, but
it stayed in front of us.
"'We're never going to kill this animal,' the
men said. It's playing games with us.
But at night, the whale didn't move."
"'Perhaps it's sleeping,' Ned land said. Let's get
near. Be very quiet.'"
Suddenly, water from the whale's back went up
into the air and rained down on our
boat.
Then I was in the sea.
Chapter 2 The Nautilus
I'm not a young man, and I can't
swim well. I started to go underwater.
But then there was a strong hand on
my back. I looked behind me. My servant
was there.
"'Conce, why are you in the water?' I
asked.
"'You were in the sea, and I wanted
to stay with you. That's my job,' Mr.
Aaron X.'
"'Conce said.
"'There's a problem with the Abraham Lincoln. It
can't come back for us.
Let's swim and wait for morning.'"
Before morning, my legs stopped working.
"'Go,' Conce, I said. I'm a dead man.
But you're young and strong. You can find
a boat."
Then water came into my mouth, and my
eyes closed.
They opened a short time later. I was
with Conce, a Ned land, too.
"'I don't understand. We're not swimming. Where are
we?' I asked.
"'On the back of the giant whale,' Ned
said. Then he smiled. But it's not a
whale.'
I looked, and he was right. We were
on a submarine.
"'You and I went into the sea at
the same time,' Mr. Aaron X,' Ned said.
"'After that, I waited here. We're okay now,
but this boat can go underwater. What are
we going to do then?'"
Suddenly, the submarine started to move.
"'Quickly,' I said. Make some noise. Hit the
boat with your hands.'"
A door opened, and eight men came out.
We went with them into the submarine.
"'Where are you taking us?' We asked the
men. But they didn't answer. We arrived in
a dark room.
The men went away and closed the door
behind them.
"'Ned tried the door, but it didn't open.
We're never going to escape,' he said.
"'Those men are going to kill us.'"
We waited for a long time in the
dark room. Then the lights came on, and
a man walked into the room.
Perhaps he was thirty-five, or perhaps fifty.
He was tall with black eyes and an
interesting open face.
"'In French,' I said our names, and asked
for food and drink. He listened quietly. But
he didn't answer.
"'He doesn't understand French,' I said. "'You try,
Ned. Perhaps he understands English.
"'Ned talked in English. Then Consé tried in
German. But they had the same problem.
"'What can we do now?' I asked my
friends. But the man walked away and closed
the door.
"'Again we waited. Ned was very angry. He
didn't like the men on the submarine.
"'He didn't like our room. And he didn't
like waiting.
"'I'm going to escape from this submarine,' he
said.
"'A man came into the room, and Ned
started to hit him in the face.
"'Consé and I wanted to stop Ned, but
he was very strong. Suddenly our first visitor
was with us again.
"'Stop, Mr. Land,' he said, in very good
French.
"'And please listen to me, all of you.
My name is Captain Nemo, and this is
my boat, the Nautilus.
"'I didn't talk to you on my first
visit. I'm sorry about that. But you're a
problem for me.
"'What can I do with you? My men
and I are never going back to our
countries.
"'We're always going to live on the Nautilus.
You can live with us too. But you
can't go back
"'to your countries after that. We don't want
stories in the newspapers about us.
"'What are you saying?' I asked. We want
to go home.
"'You can go now,' he answered. But it's
going to be difficult for you, because you
haven't got a boat.
"'You're underwater, and you aren't near the coast.
Stay with us now, and you can see
a lot of interesting things.
"'But you can never go home.'"
Chapter 3. Our first weeks underwater. We stayed,
of course.
We walked with Nemo's men to our new
bedrooms. Then I had some food with the
captain.
"'Our food comes from the sea,' he said.
And we eat very well.'
"'Our shirts, our shoes, our beds, our pens.
We make all of them from sea animals
too.'
"'I love the sea. It's our only friend.
People can't make problems for us here.'
"'But you don't want to listen to me
all day. Come and see my submarine.'"
We went into a room with thousands of
books.
"'I often read your book about sea animals,
Mr. Aranax,' the captain said.
"'You write very well. But your time on
the nautilus is going to teach you a
lot of new things.
"'A submarine is a good home for a
scientist.'"
I visited every room on the nautilus, the
first and only submarine in the seas. Captain
Nemo
was its builder, and he talked about his
answers to the problems of an underwater boat.
He was a clever
scientist and a very interesting man. Later, Nared
and Consé asked me about Captain Nemo.
Who was he? Where did he come from?
Why did he stay away from people and
live underwater?
But I didn't know the answers to their
questions.
Then, suddenly, the nautilus's sea lights came on
and we stopped thinking about the captain.
The sea looked very beautiful, with fish of
every color big and small.
We didn't take our eyes from the sea
all night. Captain Nemo was right.
A submarine was a good home for a
scientist.
The weeks after that were quiet, but interesting.
The submarine usually stayed about a hundred meters
underwater.
But every morning we went up for air,
and my friends and I looked across the
blue waters of the Pacific.
We didn't often see Captain Nemo, but Consé
and I looked at his books and at
the fish in the sea.
Only Nared was unhappy. He wasn't a scientist
and he didn't like reading.
And he didn't like eating fish every day.
One day, Captain Nemo said,
there are a lot of animals in the
trees of Crespo. They make good food.
Do you want to look for some with
me?
Trees, I asked.
Are we near the coast?
There are underwater trees, he answered.
Ned didn't want to come, but Consé and
I dressed in diving suits and walked on
the sea floor with the captain and his
men.
It wasn't difficult. On a boat, diving suits
are heavy, but they are light in the
water.
There was only one problem. I wanted to
talk about the tall trees and beautiful fish
with Consé.
But you can't hear people in a diving
suit.
Captain Nemo and his men killed some big
animals, and we went back to the Nautilus
with a lot of good food.
Chapter 4, Papuan Spears
After two months on the Nautilus, we were
near the coast of Australia.
Captain Nemo wanted to take us to Asia,
but the seas in front of us were
very difficult.
The coral reefs are famous because they are
beautiful, but they are famous too because boats
often hit them.
There are a lot of dead seamen in
those waters.
We went slowly and looked for coral reefs
under the water in front of us.
For a long time, we didn't have any
problems.
Then, suddenly, there was a big noise. The
Nautilus stopped.
What's wrong? I asked the captain. The Nautilus
is sitting on a coral reef.
It can't move. He answered quietly. But it's
not a problem.
After five days, the sea is going to
take us away from here.
The sea goes up and down every day,
of course, and it goes up and down
every month, too.
Was Captain Nemo right?
Ned didn't want to wait and see.
We can escape from the Nautilus today, he
said.
The coast is near. Let's go!
No, Ned, I answered.
The Papuans live on that coast. Papuans often
kill and eat their visitors.
Every day, Ned looked across the water at
the beautiful coast.
Perhaps we can go there and look for
food, he said.
We asked the captain.
Of course you can go, he said, with
a smile.
Take the little boat, but be back here
before nighttime.
Ned, Conse and I arrived on the coast,
and for a long time we didn't stop
eating.
There was a lot of fruit on the
trees, and it was very good.
Conse and I looked at the beautiful animals.
Ned looked at the animals, too. But he
wanted them for food.
He worked quickly, and that evening we had
a lot of dead animals and fruit for
the Nautilus' kitchen.
We started to put things in the little
boat. But suddenly, Conse said,
Oh! What was that on my hand?
Look, Ned said. There are men in the
trees. They've got spears. They're going to kill
us.
Conse and I were quickly in the boat,
but Ned wanted to get the food first.
A rain of small spears came from the
trees.
Then 100 men started to run to our
boat.
We went quickly across the water to the
Nautilus.
The papuins stayed on the coast because they
didn't have boats.
In the morning, there were 600 papuins on
the coast, and some of them had boats.
They came across the sea to the Nautilus.
We've got a big problem now, I said,
to Captain Nemo.
The papuins can't get into the Nautilus today
because the doors are closed.
But tomorrow there isn't going to be any
air in here because we can't open the
doors.
What are we going to do then? Captain
Nemo didn't look unhappy.
We're going to wait and see, he said.
I didn't sleep well that night.
In the morning there were a lot of
papuins on the Nautilus.
There wasn't much air for us now, but
the doors stayed closed.
We're going this afternoon, the captain said.
That afternoon, after five days on the coral
reef, the Nautilus suddenly started to move.
Captain Nemo was right.
The sea was up, and the submarine was
in water again.
We moved quickly away from the coast.
We looked back, and the papuins were in
the sea.
Then we opened the doors, and air came
into the boat.
Chapter 5 Nemo's Gold
We went across Indian and Arabian waters and
into the Red Sea.
Ned didn't stop thinking about escape from the
Nautilus.
Where are we going after this? He asked.
Back to the Arabian Sea first, I answered.
Then perhaps down the African coast.
But we didn't go back to the Arabian
Sea.
One day, Captain Nemo said,
Tomorrow, we're going to be in the Mediterranean.
I didn't understand.
We can't go from the Red Sea to
the Mediterranean in a boat, I said.
How are we going to take the Nautilus
across Egypt?
We aren't going to go across Egypt, we're
going to go under it, the captain answered.
I know an underwater tunnel.
That evening, we went into the tunnel.
It was very dark and very small.
But Nemo was a good seaman, and the
Nautilus didn't have any problems.
In a very short time, we were in
the Mediterranean.
We then moved quickly away from Egypt.
Near Crete, I remembered stories in the newspapers.
Crete was in Turkey.
But the Cretans wanted to be Greek.
A lot of Cretans were now dead because
the Turkish people were very angry with them.
I looked at the sea.
There was a swimmer underwater, and he didn't
have a diving suit.
Quickly, I said to Captain Nemo, let's go
to him now, or the sea's going to
kill him.
He's okay.
The captain answered.
His name's Nicholas, and he's a very good
swimmer.
Was this man a friend of the captain?
I wanted to ask, but then I stopped
thinking about the swimmer.
Captain Nemo had gold in his hands.
I looked behind him, and there was gold
on the table, too.
A lot of gold.
Later, I listened to the noises of the
night.
Men went away from the Nautilus in a
little boat, and came back a short time
later.
Did they take gold with them?
Where did they take it?
Was it for the Cretans?
We didn't go near any coasts after this,
and three days later we were in the
Atlantic.
Ned was angry.
He wanted to escape to a European country,
and Europe was behind us now.
But first, we went up the coast of
Portugal and Spain.
We're going to escape this evening, Ned said.
Meet Consé and me at the little boat
at nine o'clock.
I wanted to stay on the Nautilus, because
it was a good home for a scientist.
But I wanted to see Paris again one
day, and this was perhaps the only time
for an escape.
Okay, I said to Ned.
At nine o'clock, I opened my door
and started to walk to the little boat.
But suddenly, the Nautilus stopped on the sea
floor, then Captain Nemo arrived.
He wanted the answer to a question, I
think, Mr. Aronax, he said.
Come with me.
I went with him to the window.
There were some old boats on the sea
floor, and Nemo's men were there in their
diving suits.
They walked to the old boats, and came
back with gold in their hands.
These boats went down to the sea floor
in 1702, heavy with South American gold.
My men and I sometimes come here and
take a little gold, but it isn't for
us.
There are unhappy people in many countries.
The gold is for them.
I remembered the problems in Crete, and started
to understand Captain Nemo.
But Ned was not a happy man.
Where were you?
He asked me later.
We waited for you, but you didn't come.
Chapter 6 to the South Pole
A day later, we were many leagues from
the coast.
The roads here are very bad, Mr. Aronax,
Captain Nemo said.
But do you want to walk on them
with me?
Roads under the sea.
I didn't understand, but I put on my
diving suit and went with the captain.
Nemo walked quickly underwater.
I wanted to stay with him, but it
was very difficult.
My feet came down on the sea floor,
but the sea floor moved with me.
What was under my feet?
For a long time, we didn't stop walking.
And then, I had the answer to my
question.
There were old houses on the sea floor.
But why were there buildings here in the
Atlantic under 300 meters of water?
The sea floor went up.
Captain Nemo stopped walking and started to write
with his hand in the water.
Atlantis!
There were many stories about this underwater country,
but for many people they were only stories.
I looked down.
There was a big town on the sea
floor.
For a long time, I didn't move.
I was one of the first people in
Atlantis for hundreds of years.
I wanted to remember it.
After our visit to Atlantis, the Nautilus didn't
stop.
For many weeks the sun was very strong.
Then the air started to get cold, and
there was ice in the sea.
We were in the seas of the Antarctic.
Four days after the first ice, the Nautilus
stopped.
There was ice in front of us, and
ice behind us.
We can't move, Ned said, to concise in
me.
How are we going to escape from the
ice?
But Captain Nemo came to us and said,
We're going to be the first people at
the South Pole.
We can get there in a submarine, because
there's water under this ice.
There's only one problem.
We can't come up for air.
The Nautilus went down, and down.
At 300 metres, we were under the ice,
and there was water in front of us
again.
We started to move quickly to the South
Pole.
After a day, we were under a thousand
metres of ice.
But the morning after that, there were only
50 metres of ice.
Then 20, 10, 5.
And then the Nautilus came up into the
air, and the open sea.
We were at the South Pole.
It wasn't very cold, perhaps three degrees centigrade.
We stayed there for three happy days,
and looked at a lot of interesting animals
and fish.
Then we went under the ice again.
That night, there was a big noise.
Captain Nemo said, The ice moved at the
wrong time,
and now we've got a problem.
We're under 300 metres of ice, but there's
ice under us too.
And on our left, and right.
We're in a tunnel, but in front of
us there's water,
and it's going to take us up to
the air.
The Nautilus moved quickly in the tunnel, but
then there was a noise again.
There was now ice in front of us
too.
The Nautilus started to go back.
The same noise.
Ice behind us.
We're all dead, Ned Land said.
We've got air for two days, Captain Nemo
answered.
After that, who knows?
But there are only ten metres of ice
under the Nautilus.
Under that, there's water again.
We can make a hole in the ice
with knives and spears,
and the Nautilus can escape from the tunnel
into open water.
We dressed in diving suits and started to
work with the knives and spears,
but it was a big job.
Perhaps four or five days work, and we
didn't have five days.
After three days, we were all ill because
there wasn't any new air,
but we didn't stop working.
Captain Nemo worked with us.
Then he said, into the submarine, all of
you.
There are only two metres of ice under
us now.
The Nautilus is going to do our work
for us.
The Nautilus was strong and heavy.
It went down into our hole again and
again.
The ice started to move, and suddenly we
were in open water.
But there wasn't any air on the boat.
And we were all very ill.
The Nautilus moved under the ice.
We waited and waited.
I closed my eyes and started to sleep.
Or was I dead?
Then suddenly my eyes opened.
What was that noise?
The Nautilus is hitting ice again,
but this ice's thing, Conce said.
Perhaps we're going to be okay.
The Nautilus tried again and again.
First there were small holes in the ice.
Then suddenly there was one big hole.
The Nautilus went up into it.
We weren't dead.
We had air.
Yeah.
Chapter 7, goodbye to the Nautilus.
After our visit to the Antarctic, we didn't
see Captain Nemo very often.
The Nautilus went up the coast of South
and North America.
We wanted to escape, but every night there
was a problem.
We weren't near the coast, or the sea
was difficult.
Then we went across the Atlantic to Europe
and arrived in British waters.
Suddenly there was a big noise.
Boom!
We looked across the sea.
There was a big boat, three leagues away.
It was that boat, Ned said.
It wants to hit the Nautilus and kill
us all.
Which country is it from?
I asked.
I can't see!
Ned answered.
Boom!
Water went up into the air only five
meters from the Nautilus.
Captain Nemo arrived.
He was very angry, and he didn't look
at us.
He looked at the boat across the water
and said,
first you take my country and my family,
and now you want to kill me too.
But can you find me underwater?
No.
The Nautilus is going to hit your boat
and kill you all.
I wanted to stop the captain, but he
didn't listen to me.
The Nautilus moved away from the coast, and
the boat came after us.
Then we went underwater.
For a short time it was quiet.
Then we started to move very quickly.
Suddenly the boat was in front of us.
The Nautilus went into it.
There was a big hole in the boat
now.
A lot of water went in, and the
boat started to go down slowly under the
sea.
There were hundreds of men in the water.
Captain Nemo watched them quietly.
In a short time, they were all dead.
Nemo went back to his bedroom.
I looked at him from the door.
He was on the floor, and in his
hands there was a photograph of a beautiful
young woman,
and two small children, his dead family.
After that unhappy day, we went up the
coasts of Britain and Norway,
and into the seas of the Arctic.
For a week Ned Conce and I didn't
see Captain Nemo and his men.
Then one day Ned said,
I can see the coast.
It isn't near, but I can't stay on
the Nautilus.
I want to be home, or dead in
the sea.
I wanted to be away from the submarine,
too.
You're right, Ned.
I answered.
Let's escape this evening.
I'm going to put food in the little
boat.
Be there at ten, he said.
At ten o'clock, I went to the
little boat.
Ned and Conce were there before me.
Okay, put the boat in the water, Ned
said.
But suddenly there were noises from Nemo's men.
Did they know about our escape?
The maelstrom!
The men said.
This was a big problem.
All seamen know about the maelstrom.
Some of the seas of the Arctic move
very quickly,
and in one place two of those seas
meet.
There, a giant hole opens in the water.
Boats and whales, ten leagues away, can't escape
it.
The maelstrom takes them all down to the
sea floor.
The maelstrom now wanted the nautilus.
We looked at the big hole in the
sea in front of us.
The maelstrom's going to kill us, we said.
It was a noise, and our little boat
went into the sea.
I went in, too.
My head went under the water.
Then my eyes closed.
I opened my eyes.
Ned and Conse were there.
We were in the house of a Norwegian
seamen.
How did we get here?
We don't remember, but in a short time
we can go home.
Every day we talk about the nautilus.
We have a lot of questions, but perhaps
we are never going to know the answers.
Where did Captain Nemo come from?
Who killed his family?
Did he and his men escape from the
maelstrom?
And where is he now?